## Imitaion Learning library for Robotis Bioloid written in C++
### 1. Installation

   This project can be installed with `git clone https://github.com/ravikanth720/robotics-dynamixel-api.git`

### 2. Usage

   Make sure the serial port is connected to the right port before running the program. (Default is ttyUSB0). This can be configured in `CPP_AXControl.cpp` file.

   The bioloid should be set to toss mode before continuing with the program execution.

   There are 2 important files
   1. `CPP_AXControl.cpp`
      The is the main file for recording and replaying motor tasks (through imitation learning) on the Bioloid Robot. It contains the following cases.
      1. Record the robot movements
         Reads the bioloid's state for 15 seconds (this can be configured) and writes out 2 files.
         1. `positions.txt`
            This file contains position of each motor - 18 space delimited values per line. Each value is the position of a motor (18 values for motors with id 1 - 18 respectively ). Each line represents the state of the bioloid at a time unit.
          2. `movements.txt`
             This file contains more detailed state information. 18*3 space delimited values per line. Each value is the position of a motor (18 values for motors with id 1 - 18 respectively ). Each line represents the state of the bioloid at a time unit.
      2. Replay the recorded movements
        This option reads the generated files from previous step and replays that on the bioloid.
      3. This step replays the previous step with speed values.
      4. This helps in reading a new initial position. This position is then given as input to the DMP (MATLAB) to get new trajectory.
      5. This case replays the new trajectory generated by the DMP, in previous step, with new initial state.
      6. The cases 6 and 7 are for testing purposes. They read and write to a specified motor respectively.

   2. `Dynamixel.cpp`
      This file contains the methods to communicate with the Bioloid motors. The following methods are the most useful for imitation learning.
      1. getPosition( \*serialport, MotorID )
         Takes the serialport and Motor ID (integer between 1 and 18) as input
         returns a position value (integer between 0 and 1023 )
      2. getCurrentSpeed( \*serialport, MotorID )
         Takes the serialport and Motor ID (integer between 1 and 18) as input
         returns a speed value (integer between 0 and 2047)
      3. getTorque( \*serialport, MotorID )
        Takes the serialport and Motor ID (integer between 1 and 18) as input
        returns a torque value (integer between 0 and 2047)
      4. getLoad( \*serialport, MotorID )
        Takes the serialport and Motor ID (integer between 1 and 18) as input
        returns a load value (integer between 0 and 1023)
      5. setPosition( \*serialPort, MotorID, Position)
        Takes the serialport, Motor ID (integer between 1 and 18) and Position (integer between 0 and 1023) as input
        returns a Position value (integer between 0 and 1023)
      6. setSpeed( \*serialPort, MotorID, Speed)
        Takes the serialport, Motor ID (integer between 1 and 18) and Position (integer between 0 and 1023) as input
        returns a Position value (integer between 0 and 1023)
      7. setTorque( \*serialPort, MotorID, Position)
        Takes the serialport, Motor ID (integer between 1 and 18) and Position (integer between 0 and 1023) as input
        returns a Position value (integer between 0 and 1023)

### 3. License information
   This software is open source.
